- The static nested class is the simplest form of nested class.

- You declare one by preceding the class declaration with `static` modifier.

- When nested in an interface, a class declaration is always public and static and the modifiers are, by convention, omitted.

- A static nested class acts just like any top-level class. It can extend any other class (including the class it is a member of), implement any interface and itself be used for further extension by any class to which it is accessible.

- It can be declared `final` or `abstract`, just as a top-level class can, and it can have annotations applied to it.

- Static nested classes serve as a mechanism for defining logically related types within a context in which that type makes sense. [look at p.62 (`BankAccount` and `Permissions`)]

- Static nested classes are members of their enclosing type.

- Static nested classes enclosed in an interface are implicitly public; if enclosed by a class, you can declare them to be accessible in any way you like. You can, for example, declare a class that is an implementation detail to be `private`.

- If a static nested class declared a method that took its enclosing parent object as an argument, that method would be able to directly access all the fields (including private) of that object. In this sense the nested class is seen as part of the implementation of the enclosing class and so is completely trusted.

- There's no restriction on how a static nested class can be extended - it can be extended by any class to which it is accessible. Of course, the extended class does not inherit the privileged access that the nested class has to the enclosing class.

- Nested `enum` classes are always static, although by convention the `static` modifier is omitted from the `enum` declaration.

