- A sub-interface inherits all the methods declared in its super-interfaces.

- If a declared method in a sub-interface has the same signature (name and parameter list) as an inherited method and the same, or covariant, return type, then the new declaration *overrides* any and all existing declarations.

- Overriding in interfaces, unlike overriding in classes, has no semantic effect - the interface effectively contains multiple declarations of the same method, but in any one implementing class there can be only one implementation of that method.

- Similarly, if an interface inherits more than one method with the same signature, or if a class implements different interfaces containing a method with the same signature, there is only one such method.

- The implementation of this method is ultimately defined by the class implementing the interfaces, and there is no ambiguity there.

- If the methods have the same signature but different return types, then one of the return types must be a subtype of all the others, otherwise a compile-time error error occurs. The implementation must define a method that returns that common subtype.

- The real issue is whether a single implementation of the method can honor all the contracts implied by that method being part of the different interfaces For example:

		interface CardDeal {
			void draw();    // flip top card
			void deal();    // distribute cards
			void shuffle();
		}

		interface GraphicalComponent {  
		    void draw();                // render on default device  
		    void draw(Device d);        // render on 'd'  
		    void rotate(int degrees);  
		    void fill(Color c);  
		    class Device {}  
		    class Color {}  
		}

		interface GraphicalCardDealer extends CardDealer, GraphicalComponent {  
		}

- Here it is difficult to write an implementation of `draw()` that can satisfy the two different contracts independently. If you try to satisfy them simultaneously, you are unlikely to achieve the desired results: flipping a card each time the screen gets repainted.

- As with overriding in the class extension, the overriding method is not permitted to throw more checked exceptions than the method it overrides.

- If two or more method declarations are inherited, without overriding, and differ in the exceptions they throw, then the implementation of that method must satisfy all the `throws` clauses of those declarations.

- Again the main issue is whether such distinct methods can have a single implementation that honors all contracts. [see chp12]

- If a declared method differs only in return type from an inherited method, or if two inherited methods differ only in return type where one type is not a subtype of the other, you will get a compile-time error.

