- You can use an implementing class like `AttributedImpl` by simply extending the class. This is the simplest tool when it is available because all the methods and their implementations are inherited.

- But if you need to support more than one interface or extend a different class, you must use a different approach. The most common approach is to create an object of an implementing class and *forward* all the methods of the interface to that object, returning any values - this is often called *composition*.

- In composition and forwarding, each method in the class that is inherited from the interface invokes the implementation from another object and returns the result.

- See the implementation of the `Attributed` interface that uses an `AttributedImpl` object to build an attributed version of our previously defined celestial body class `Body` at `AttributedBody`.

- The declaration that `AttributedBody` extends `Body` and implements `Attributed` defines the contract of `AttributedBody`. The implementations of all `Body`'s methods are inherited from the `Body` class itself. Each method of `Attributed` is implemented by forwarding the invocation to the `AttributedImpl` object's equivalent method, returning its value (if any). This also means that you must add a field of type `AttributedImpl` to use in the forwarding methods and initialize that field to refer to an `AttributedImpl` object.

- Forwarding is both straightforward and much less work than implementing `Attributed` from scratch. Forwarding also enables you to quickly change the implementation you use, should a better implementation of `Attributed` become available at some future date. However, forwarding must be set up manually and that can be tedious and sometimes error prone.

