There are three important factors in writing a `clone` method:

- The empty `Cloneable` interface, which you must implement to provide a `clone` method that can be used to clone an object.

- The `clone` method implemented by the `Object` class, which performs a simple clone by copying all fields of the original object to the new object. This method works for many classes but may need to be supplemented by an overriding method.

- The `CloneNotSupportedException`, which can be used to signal that a class's `clone` method shouldn't have been invoked.

A given class can have one of four different attitudes toward `clone`. [see p. 102]


### Correct Cloning

- See [p. 103], especially with arrays.

- With regards to cloning and final fields, see [p. 106]

- Sometimes making `clone` work correctly is not worth the trouble, and some classes should not support `clone`. In such cases, you should define a `clone` method that throws `CloneNotSupportedException` so that objects with bad state will never be created by an unsuspecting subclass that uses `clone`.

- You can declare that all subclasses of a class must support `clone` properly by overriding your class's `clone` method with one that drops the declaration of `CloneNotSupportedException`. Subclasses implementing the `clone` method cannot throw `CloneNotSupportedException`, because methods in a subclass cannot add an exception to a method. In the same way, if your class makes `clone` public, all extended classes must also have public `clone` methods, because a subclass cannot make a method less visible that it was in its superclass.


### Shallow versus Deep Cloning

- The default implementation of clone provides what is known as a *shallow* clone or copy - it simply performs a field by field copy.

- A *deep* clone would clone each object referred to by a field and each entry in an array. This would apply recursively and so deep cloning an object would clone all of the objects reachable from that object.

- In general, `clone` is overridden to perform a deeper clone whenever a shallow clone is not appropriate - such as in the `IntegerStack` example.

- The object serialization mechanism [see p. 549] allows you to write entire object graphs to a stream of bytes and, using that generated stream of bytes, create an equivalent copy of the original object graphs. Serialization can provide a way to make deeper copies than those provided by `Object.clone`.

