- The extended class's constructors must delegate construction of the inherited state by either implicitly or explicitly invoking a superclass constructor.

- A constructor in the extended class can directly invoke one of the superclass's constructors using another kind of explicit constructor invocation: the *superclass constructor invocation*, which uses the `super` construct. E.g.,

		public ColorAttr(String name, Object value) {
			super(name, value);
			decodeColor();
		}

- You can defer the choice of which superclass constructor to use by explicitly invoking one of your class's own constructors using `this` instead of `super`, as shown below:

		public ColorAttr(String name) {
			this(name, "transparent");
		}

- We chose to ensure that every color attribute has a color. If a color value is not supplied we provide a default of `"transparent"`, hence the one-argument constructor invokes the two-argument constructor using a *default argument*.

- If you do not invoke a superclass constructor or one of your own constructors as your constructor's first executable statement, the superclass's no-arg constructor is automatically invoked before any statements of the new constructor are executed. That is, your constructor is treated as if 

		super();

	were its first statement. If the superclass doesn't have a no-arg constructor, you must explicitly invoke another constructor.

- The third constructor of `ColorAttr` enables the programmer creating a new `ColorAttr` object to specify the `ScreenColor` object itself.

		public ColorAttr(String name, ScreenColor value) {
			super(name, value.toString());
			myColor = value;
		}

- Constructors are not methods and are not inherited. If the superclass defines a number of constructors and an extended class wishes to have constructors of the same form, then the extended class must explicitly declare each constructor, even if all that constructor does is invoke the superclass constructor of the same form.

