
- When an object is created, memory is allocated for all its fields, including those inherited from superclasses, and those fields are set to default initial values for their respective types (`0` for all numeric types, `false` for `boolean`, `'\u0000'` for `char`, and `null` for object references). After this, construction has three phases:

	1. Invoke a superclass's constructor.
	2. Initialize the fields using their initializers and any initialization blocks.
	3. Execute the body of the constructor.

	see [p. 81, 82, 83]

- In the first stage, any expressions evaluated as part of an explicit constructor invocation are not permitted to refer to any of the members of the current object.

- In the second stage, references to other fields of the current object are permitted, provided they have already been declared.

- If an exception is thrown during the construction process, the `new` expression terminates by throwing that exception - no reference to the new object is returned.

- Because an explicit constructor invocation must be the first statement in a constructor body, it is impossible to catch an exception thrown by another constructor. (If you were allowed to catch such exceptions it would be possible to construct objects with invalid initial states.)

- Understanding ordering is important when you invoke methods during construction. When you invoke a method, you always get the implementation of that method for the actual type of the object. If the method uses fields of the actual type, they may not have been initialized yet.

- Methods you invoke during the construction phase of an object must be designed with these factors in mind. Your constructors should avoid invoking overridable methods - methods that are not `private`, `static`, or `final`. If you do invoke such methods, clearly list them in your documentation to alert anyone wanting to override these methods of their potential unusual use.

