### Overriding

- When overriding methods, the signature of must be the same as in the superclass - if they differ then it is an overload.

- The return type of an overriding method is allowed to vary in a specific way: If the return type is a reference type then the overriding method can declare a return type that is a subtype of that declared by the superclass method - This is referred to as being a *covariant* return type.

- If the return type is a primitive type, then the return type of the overriding method must be identical to that of the superclass method.

- It is an error if two methods differ only in return type and the compiler will reject your class.

- Defining an overriding method that replaces a sequence with an array is allowed, but is strongly discouraged. This is confusing and not useful, so don't do it.

- A subclass can change the access of a superclass's methods, but only to provide more access. Making a method less accessible than it was in a superclass would violate the contract of the superclass, because an instance of the subclass would not be usable in place of a superclass instance.

- The overriding method is also allowed to change other method modifiers. The `synchronized`, `native`, and `strictfp` modifiers can be freely varied because they are implementation concerns, as are any annotations.

- The overriding method can be `final` but obviously the method it is overriding cannot.

- An instance method cannot have the same signature as an inherited static method, and vice versa.

- The overriding method can be made `abstract`, even though the superclass method was not.

- A subclass can change whether a parameter in an overriding method is `final`; a `final` modifier for a parameter is not part of the method signature - it is an implementation detail.

- The overriding method's `throws` clause can be different from that of the superclass method's as long as every exception type listed in the overriding method is the same as or a subtype of the exceptions listed in the superclass's method. That is, each type in the overriding method's `throws` clause must be polymorphically compatible with at least one of the types listed in the `throws` clause of the supertype's method. This means that the `throws` clause of an overriding method can have fewer types listed than the method in the superclass, or more specific types, or both. The overriding method can even have no `throws` clause, which means that it results in no checked exceptions.
