- When a method accesses an object's member that has been redefined in a subclass, to which member will the method refer - the superclass member or the subclass member? The answer to that depends on the kind of member, its accessibility, and how you refer to it.

- When you invoke a method through an object reference, the *actual class of the object* governs which implementation is used (right-side of object declaration).

- When you access a field, the *declared type of the reference* is used (left-side of object declaration). [see p. 86]

- For the `str` field, the type of the *reference*, not the actual class of the *object*, determines which class's field is accessed. In fact, each `ExtendShow` object has *two* `String` fields, both called `str`, one of which is hidden by `ExtendShow`'s own, different field called `str`:

		Object
		   ^
		   |
		SuperShow
			str = "SuperStr"
		   ^
		   |
		ExtendedShow
			str = "ExtendStr"

- The field that gets access is determined at compile time based on the type of the reference used to access it.

- Inside a method, a reference to a field always refers to the field declared in the class in which the method is declared, or else to an inherited field if there is no declaration in that class.

- Read [p. 88] for detailed info.


### Accessibility and Overriding

- A method can be overridden only if it is *accessible*. If the method is not accessible then it is not inherited, and if it is not inherited it can't be overridden.

- Invocations of private methods always invoke the implementation of the method declared in the current class.

- When a method is inaccessible because the superclass and subclass are in different packages things are more complicated. See [chp. 18]


### Hiding Static Members

- Static members within a class - whether fields or methods - cannot be overridden, they are always hidden.

- Each static field or method should always be accessed via the name of its declaring class, hence the fact that it gets hidden by a declaration in a subclass is of little consequence. 

- If a reference is used to access a static member then, as with instance fields, static members are always accessed based on the declared type of the reference, not the type of the object referred to.

