### JVM

- Source code is compiled into *Java bytecodes*, which are designed to be run on a Java *virtual machine*.
- Bytecodes are a machine language for an abstract machine, executed by the virtual machine on each system that supports the Java programming language.

### Runtime

- The VM provides a *runtime* system, which provides access to the VM itself (for example, a way to start the garbage collector) and to the outside world (such as the output stream `System.out`).

- The runtime system checks security-sensitive operations with a *security manager (SM)* or *access controller*. The *SM* could, for example, forbid the application to read or write the local disk, or could allow network connections only to particular machines. The *security policy* in force determines what an application is allowed to do.

- When classes are loaded into a VM, they will first be checked by a *verifier* that ensures the bytecodes are properly formed and meet security and safety guarantees (for example, that the bytecodes never attempt to use an integer as a reference to gain access to parts of memory).

### Outro

- These features combined give platform independence to provide a security model suitable for executing code downloaded across the network at varying levels of trust.

- Source code compiled into Java bytecodes can be run on any machine that has a JVM and executed with an appropriate level of protection (which is adjustable) - bytecode on the local disk or protected network can be trusted more than bytecodes fetched from arbitrary machines elsewhere in the world.


#### Notes

- Other languages can also be compiled into Java bytecodes.
- A system can, of course, implement the JVM in silicon - that is, using a special-purpose chip. This does not affect the portability of the bytecodes; it is just another VM implementation.