Field declarations can also be preceded by modifiers that control certain properties of the field:
- *annotations*
- *access modifiers*
- *static*
- *final*
- *transient* - This relates to object serialization
- *volatile* - This relates to synchronization and memory model issues


### Access Control
- One of the strengths of object-oriented programming is its support for *encapsulation* and *data hiding*. To achieve these we need a way to control who has access to what members of a class or interface, and even to the class or interface itself. This control is specified with *access modifiers* on class, interface, and member declarations.
	- *private* - Members declared `private` are accessible only in the class itself.
	- *package* - Members declared with no access modifier are accessible in classes in the same package, as well as in the class itself.
	- *protected* - Members declared `protected` are accessible in subclasses of the class, in classes in the same package, and in the class itself.
	- *public* - Members declared `public` are accessible anywhere the class is accessible.


- The `private` and `protected` access modifiers apply only to members not to the classes or interfaces themselves (unless nested). For a member to be accessible from a section of code in some class, the member's class must first be accessible from that code.
- It is important to realize that access control is performed on a per-class (or interface) level not on a per-object level. This means that members of a class are always accessible from all code written in that class regardless of which instance the code is being applied to.

- You should view `public` and `protected` members as contractual, because they can be relied on by code you do not control. Changing them can be impossible after that code relies on public or protected functionality.
- `package` and `private` access are part of your implementation, hidden from outsiders (classes in the same package should be related).


### Static Fields
- Sometimes you want only one instance of a field shared by all objects of a class. You create such fields by declaring them `static`. 
- When you declare a `static` field in a class only one copy of the field exists, no matter how many instances of the class are created.


### Final Fields
- Fields that are marked `final` have special semantics with regard to concurrent access by multiple threads.
- If a `final` field does not have an initializer it is termed a *blank final*. You would use a blank final when simple initialization is not appropriate for a field. Such fields must be initialized once the class has been initialized (in the case of `static final` fields) or once an object of the class been fully constructed (for non-static `fianl` fields). The compiler will ensure that this is done and refuse to compile a class if it determines that a `fianl` field does not get initialized.
- Whether a property is immutable is determined by the semantics of the application for which the class was designed. When you decide whether a field should be `final`, consider three things:
	- Does the field represent an immutable property of the object?
	- Is the value of the field always known at the time the object is created?
	- Is it always practical and appropriate to set the value of the field when the object is created?

	- There are additional considerations concerning `final` fields if your object must be cloneable or serializable.


### Notes
- A field cannot be both `final` and `volatile`.
- When multiple modifiers are applied to the same field declaration, it is recommended to use the order listed above.
- During initialization, the only requirement is that the initializer be of the right type and, if it invokes a method, no checked exceptions may be thrown because there is no surrounding code to catch the exception.

