- You create objects using `new`, but you never delete them explicitly.

- The virtual machine manages memory for you using *garbage collection*, which means that objects that you cannot possibly use any longer can have their space automatically reclaimed by the virtual machine without your intervention.

- If you no longer need an object you should cease referring to it.

- With local variables in methods this can be as simple as returning from the method - when the method is no longer executing none of its variables can possibly be used.

- More durable references, such as fields of objects, can be sett to `null`.


#### Constructors
- Constructors are blocks of statements that can be used to initialize an object before the reference to the object is returned by `new`.

- Constructors are not methods and have no return types.

- Constructors can have any of the same access modifiers as class members, but constructors are *not* members of a class - a distinction you can usually ignore, except when it comes to inheritance.

- Constructors can also have annotations applied to them.

- One constructor can invoke another constructor from the same class by using the `this()` invocation as its first executable statement. This is called an *explicit constructor invocation*. 

- If provided, an explicit constructor invocation must be the first statement in the constructor.

- Any expressions that are used as arguments for the explicit constructor invocation must not refer to any fields or methods of the current object - to all intents and purposes there is no current object at this stage of construction.

- A constructor that isn't `public` restricts who can create objects using it. You could, for example, prevent programmers using your package from creating instances of a class by making all its constructors accessible only inside the package.

- If you want a no-arg constructor and one or more constructors with arguments, you must explicitly provide a no-arg constructor.

- The default constructor has the same accessibility as the class for which it was defined - if the class is `public` then the default constructor is `public`.

- Another form of constructor is a *copy constructor* - this constructor takes an argument of the current object type and constructs the new object to be a copy of the passed in object. E.g.,
		`Body(Body other) {
			`idNum = other.idNum`;
			`name = other.name;`
			`orbits = other.orbits;`
		`}`
	This idiom is not used much within the Java class libraries, because the preferred way to make a direct copy of an object is by using the `clone` method. However, many classes support a more general form of construction that "copies" another object.

- Constructors can also be declared to throw checked exceptions. If a `throws` clause exists then any method that invokes this constructor as part of a `new` expression must either catch the declared exception or itself declare that it throws that exception.

