#### Initialization Blocks

- This is a block of statements that appears within the class declaration, outside of any member, or constructor, declaration and that initializes the fields of the object.

- It is executed as if it were placed at the beginning of every constructor in the class - with multiple blocks being executed in the order they appear in the class.

- An initialization block can throw a checked exception only if all of the class's constructors are declared to throw that exception.

This variant of the `Body` class replaces the no-arg constructor with an equivalent initialization block:

	class Body {
		public long idNum;
		...
		private static long nextID = 0;
		
		{
			idNum = nextID++;
		}

		public Body(String bodyName, Body orbitsAround) { ... }
	}

- Now the two-argument constructor doesn't need to perform the explicit invocation of the no-arg constructor, but we no longer have a no-arg constructor and so everyone is forced to use the two-argument constructor.

- An initialization block can be useful to define a common piece of code that all constructors execute.

- In practice, initialization blocks are most useful when you are writing anonymous inner classes that can't have constructors.

- Spreading initialization code all through a class is not a good design, and should be used judiciously, when they express something that cannot easily be done by constructors alone.


#### Static Initialization

- We can perform more complex static initialization in a *static initialization block*.

- It is declared `static`, can only refer to static members of the class, and cannot throw any checked exceptions.

	For example, creating a static array and initializing its elements sometimes must be done with executable statements. Here is example code to initialize a small array of prime numbers:

		class Primes {
			static int[] knownPrimes = new int[4];

			static {
				knownPrimes[0] = 2;
				for (int i = 1; i < knownPrimes.length; i++) {
					knownPrimes[i] = nextPrime();
				}
			}

			// declaration of nextPrime() ...
		}


- The order of initialization within a class is first-to-last - each field initializer or initialization block is executed before the next one, from the beginning of the source to the end.

- The static initializers are executed after the class is loaded, before it is actually used. With this guarantee, our static block in the example is assured that the `knownPrimes` array is already created before the initialization code block executes. Similarly, anyone accessing a static field is guaranteed that the field has been initialized.


#### Notes

- What if a static initializer in class *X* invokes a method in *Y*, but *Y*'s static initializers invoke a method in *X* to set up *its* static values? This cyclic static initialization cannot be reliably detected during compilation because the code for *Y* may not be written when *X* is compiled. If cycles happen, *X*'s static initializers will have been executed only to the point where *Y*'s method was invoked. When *Y*, in turn, invokes the *X* method, that method runs with the rest of the static initializers yet to be executed. Any static fields in *X* that haven't had their initializers executed will still have their default values (`false`, `'\u0000'`, `0`, or `null` depending on their type).

