Method modifiers consists of the following:
- *annotations*
- *access modifiers*
- *abstract* - An `abstract` method is one whose body has not been defined in this class - the body is specified as a semicolon after the parameter list. A subclass is then responsible for providing a body for this method.
- *static*
- *final* - A `final` method cannot be overridden in a subclass.
- *synchronized* - A `synchronized` method has additional semantics related to the control of concurrent threads within a program.
- *native*
- *strict floating point* - A method declared `strictfp` has all floating-point arithmetic evaluated strictly. If a method is declared within a class declared `strictfp`, then that method is implicitly declared `strictfp`.

- An abstract method cannot be static, final, synchronized, native, or strict.
- A native method cannot be strict.


#### Static Methods

- These are invoked on behalf of an entire class, not on a specific object instantiated from that class. E.g., returning the next available serial number or something of that nature.

- A `static` method can access only `static` fields and other `static` methods of the class. This is because non-static members must be accessed through an object reference, and no object reference is available within a static method - there is no `this` reference.


#### Parameter Values

- All parameters to methods are passed "by value". In other words, values of parameter variables in    a method are copies of the values the invoker specified as arguments.

- If you pass a `double` to a method, its parameter is a copy of whatever value was being passed as an argument, and the method can change its parameter's value without affecting values in the code that invoked the method.

- You should note that when the parameter is an object reference, it is the object *reference* - not the object itself - that is passed "by value". Thus, you can change which object a parameter refers to inside the method without affecting the reference that was passed. But if you change any fields of the object or invoke methods that change the object's state, the object is changed for every part of the program that holds a reference to it.

- Look at page 63 for more info.

- Some people will say incorrectly that objects are passed "by reference". In programming language design, the term *pass by reference* properly means that when an argument is passed to a function, the invoked function gets a reference to the original value, not a copy of its value. If the function modifies its parameter, the value in the calling code will be changed because the argument and parameter use the same slot in memory. If the Java programming language actually had pass-by-reference parameters, there would be a way to declare `halveIt` so that the above code would modify the value of one, or so that `commonName` could change the variable `sirius` to `null`. This is not possible.

- The Java programming language does not pass objects by reference; it passes object references by value. Because two copies of the same reference refer to the same actual object, changes made through one reference variable are visible through the other. There is exactly one parameter passing mode - pass by value - and that helps keep things simple.

- You can declare method parameters to be `final`, meaning that the value of the parameter will not change while the method is executing. When you do not intend to change a parameter's value, you can declare it `final` so the compiler can enforce this expectation.

- A `final` declaration can also protect against assigning a value to a parameter when you intended to assign to a field of the same name.

- A `final` modifier on a parameter is an implementation detail that affects only the method's code, not the invoking code, so you can change whether a parameter is `final` without affecting any invoking code.


#### Using Methods to Control Access

- Access control in Java is per-class, not per-object.

- Suppose that a body could be captured by another body and forced to orbit around it, we could define the following method in `Body`:

		public void capture(Body victim) {
			victime.orbits = this;
		}

- If access control were per-object, then the `capture` method when invoked on one object would not be able to access the private `orbits` field of the `victim` body object to modify it. But because access control is per-class, the code of a method in a class has access to all the fields of all objects of that class - it simply needs a reference to the object, such as via a parameter as above.

- Some object-oriented language advocate per-object access control, but Java is not one of them.


#### Overloading Methods

- The following shows extremely poor use of overloading:

		public static void print(String title) { ... }
		public static void print(String title, String... messages) { ... }
		public static void print(String... messages) { ... }

	Given the invocation
		`print("Hello");  // which print?`

	The fixed-argument method will always be selected over a varargs method (but it can be confusing).

	However,
	
		print("Hello", "World");  // INVALID: ambigious invocation
		
	the invocation above is ambiguous and results in a compile-time error. This could be a string and a one-element sequence, or a two-element sequence.

	- See page 71 for more info.


#### Importing Static Member Names

- A static import statement consists of the keyword phrase `import static`, followed by the fully qualified name of the class or interface you are importing the static member from, a dot and then the static member's name. E.g.,
		`import static java.lang.Math.exp;`

- A *static import on demand statement* uses an asterisk ( \* ) instead of a member name. This tells the compiler that if it finds names that it doesn't know about, it should look at the type given by the static import on demand statement to see if it has a static member by that name. E.g.,
		`import static java.lang.Math.*;`

- As a general rule you should use static imports to improve the readability and clarity of your code, not to save yourself some typing.

